Previously on This Is Us...
I got the results
of the PET scan back.
And the scan is positive
for plaques building
in my brain.
NICKY:
Girl who got away.
I told you about her, right?
REBECCA:
You want to go see Sally?
Let's go see Sally. Pack a bag.
We'll leave in the morning.
Jennifer wants to be back
in Janelle's life.
I'm really sorry you got upset
about my talk with Malik.
Of course I'm upset.
My boyfriend's ex-girlfriend
is coming back into his life.
I didn't tell anybody this,
but I applied to Harvard.
(chuckles):
I got into Harvard.
The beautiful, bountiful
branches of my family tree.
-(horn honks)
-Look who's here.
How was the drive up?
(exhales)
Not bad.
Always goes by faster
than you'd think.
("April Come She Will"
by Simon & Garfunkel playing)
Oh, uh, don't forget
to roll out the trash cans.
MIGUEL:
I won't.
REBECCA:
And then ask the gardeners
to please roll them back in
when we're gone.
♪ When streams are ripe... ♪
I will.
♪ With rain ♪
♪ May, she will stay ♪
♪ Resting in my arms again ♪
♪ June ♪
♪ She'll change her tune ♪
♪ In restless walks,
she'll prowl the night ♪
♪ July... ♪
RANDALL:
Dej, you out of here?
You and Tiffany
are staying in studying, right?
No egging boys' houses
or going out clubbing?
You got my number, Commander.
You know I do.
(whispers):
Good luck.
♪ April ♪
-♪ Come she will... ♪
-(Nicky mumbling)
MIGUEL:
A suitcase, Nicky?
We're gonna be gone one night.
I like to have clothing choices.
REBECCA:
So, what's her deal?
Is she single,
married, divorced?
You didn't give us
any information
once you connected with her
-last night.
-She's single.
Yeah, but I didn't pry
or anything. Anyway,
-can we just go?
-(car door opens)
Okay.
Fingers and toes.
♪ June ♪
♪ She'll change her tune... ♪
I'm heading up
to see the grandkids.
What awaits you in Boston?
♪ September, I'll remember ♪
My boyfriend.
(chuckles softly)
♪ A love once new ♪
♪ Has now grown old. ♪
He goes to school there.
First time
I'm going away to see him.
That's exciting.
Butterflies in the tummy, I...
I bet.
(chuckles)
There's nothing like young love.
It changes you.
You'll see.
♪ ♪
(Janelle squeals)
(Deja and Malik chuckle)
Uh, we got to hustle. Janelle's
mom is taking her for the day
so we can be together.
You get to meet Jennifer.
Oh.
Come on.
Oh, you talked to the gardeners
about the trash cans, right?
-(Nicky mumbling)
-This is not me forgetting.
This is me just confirming
that you didn't forget.
-I sure did.
-Okay.
Nicky, what are you mumbling
about back there?
Uh, it's, uh,
an opening line
for-for when I see her.
Let's hear it.
-NICKY: Yeah?
-REBECCA: Yeah.
Okay, fine. So...
Sally opens the door,
and I see her,
and I say, "Hey, Sal.
"It took 50 years,
but I finally made it
to California."
Because we were going to, uh,
drive to California,
but I... I... I suck.
-This whole thing sucks.
Forget it.
-REBECCA: No.
-Never mind.
Sorry. Sorry. Sorry.
-REBECCA: It's perfect.
It's perfect.
Oh, we got to... we got to make
a stop before we get there.
My mother told me
you never go
to someone's house empty-handed.
Sure, man. We can do that.
REBECCA:
Is it okay with everyone
-if I turn on the radio?
-Oh, please.
-(man speaking indistinctly
over radio)
-Oh, goodness.
If Jack could see
the three of us now.
-(chuckles)
-NICKY: Yeah.
His head would go kablooey.
I think he would love it.
I think it would make him
very happy.
And who knows? Maybe...
Maybe Jack had a hand
-in how all of this played out.
-(Nicky groans)
-MIGUEL: Like he's up
-on a cloud watching us,
pulling the strings?
-(Nicky scoffs)
REBECCA:
Okay, scoff all you want
back there, Nicholas.
I am allowing myself to believe
that there are higher powers
at play.
Be open to new ideas.
(flipping through
radio stations)
-♪ Ooga-Chaka Ooga-Ooga ♪
-(gasps) Oh, I love this song.
MIGUEL:
Oh, let's hear it.
Crank it up, crank it up.
(singing along):
♪ Ooga-Chaka Ooga-Ooga ♪
♪ Ooga-Chaka Ooga-Ooga... ♪
♪ I can't stop this feeling ♪
♪ Deep inside of me ♪
♪ Ooga-Chaka Ooga-Ooga... ♪
♪ Girl, you just don't realize ♪
♪ What you do to me ♪
♪ Ooga-Ooga Ooga-Chaka... ♪
♪ When you hold me
in your arms so tight ♪
♪ You let me know
everything's all right ♪
♪ I-I-I'm ♪
♪ Hooked on a feeling ♪
♪ I'm high on believing ♪
♪ That you're in love
with me... ♪
Don't we have to get
your boss' car back?
Aw, it's fine. He said,
"Have fun. Don't wreck it."
So let's not wreck it.
♪ Yeah, you turn me on ♪
-♪ I-I-I'm ♪
-Whoo!
♪ Hooked on a feeling ♪
♪ I'm high on believing ♪
♪ That you're in love with me ♪
(volume fades)
♪ Lips as sweet as candy ♪
♪ Its taste is on my mind ♪
♪ Girl, you got me thirsty. ♪
(footsteps)
Mommy!
Hi, my cutie.
-Mommy.
-Hi, sweetie.
Really, Malik?
Y'all are late,
and Janelle's not even dressed
-for dinner with my parents.
-I'm sorry.
-Uh, this is Deja.
-Hey, girl.
-Hi. Nice to...
-Is her blue dress clean?
It's my mom's favorite dress.
She loves that dress.
Malik, come on.
Look, chill.
She has clean clothes.
-Excuse me.
-Sorry.
Go ahead, go play, go play.
JANELLE:
Okay.
-Baby, do you want apples?
-Yes.
Yes? Okay.
Have a juice box.
-Huh?
-Okay, what else?
Do you want strawberries?
-Yes, strawberries.
-Okay. This dress is clean.
Wait, are you taking
all of her food?
Well, I was gonna
go grocery shopping
before this dinner,
but you got here late.
I know, my bad. I've just been
really wrapped up in this paper.
(laughs)
Yeah, okay, sure. The paper.
MALIK:
Okay. Come on.
(laughs)
Okay. Janelle, baby,
let's go, we gotta go.
Come on, honey.
We gotta go. Here.
Okay, yes, put it on.
Gotta go. Let's go.
Bye, J.
It was really nice meeting you.
You-you, too.
-Bye, Janelle.
-Come on, honey.
Come on. Let's go.
(Malik sighs)
(sighs)
It said online that you--
you sell old cameras.
Yes, yes. This way.
-A lot of stuff.
-Mm.
-How old is it?
-About 19... 1970.
Perfect! Perfect.
I think you're gonna be
very happy with it.
Let me just see
how much it is, though.
-There you go.
-Well...
90 bucks? 90 bucks?!
Does this thing even work?
Well, yes.
It's in pristine condition.
I mean, some things grow
in value with age.
That is ridiculous, 'cause
if that was true, this guy
would be worth a million bucks.
I'll give you 50.
I'm sorry, sir, our prices
are nonnegotiable.
-This is ridiculous.
-MIGUEL: Well, then,
let's just forget it.
You don't need to bring
Sally a camera.
No, no, no.
No, the whole thing,
the whole idea is so crazy.
What was I thinking?
I mean...
I mean, it's like tracking down
some girl
from a long time ago,
and thinking I'm gonna...
Let's go home.
-What?
-Home?
-You've traveled nearly
200 miles.
-No, no.
Okay, uh, we'll give you 70
bucks, and throw in some film.
Uh, okay, okay.
Wait. Hold on.
What are you doing?
You said so yourself.
You don't want to arrive
to Sally's emptyhanded.
Sally doesn't even know
I'm coming.
I never reached out to her.
-What?
-I...
I don't even know if this is
my Sally Brooks.
I mean, she only has pictures
of ducks and otters
on her Instagram page.
I ju-- I just know that
she likes animals
and-and photography, so I...
I did a google search,
and I found the address.
But I don't know that it's her.
Or if she's married, or...
alive.
It doesn't matter.
We're not gonna let you
wuss out.
We're 20 minutes away,
so just get in the car.
You two idiots, you gotta...
you gotta walk with me
to the door.
Okay? 'Cause I don't think
I can do this alone.
Great. Great.
Let's go. Hurry!
-We're the idiots.
-Yeah.
Sags in the middle,
but it was cheap.
Besides, I don't sleep much.
Yeah, I could tell.
A lot of coffee cups.
Must get expensive.
What can I say?
I love my dark roast.
(both chuckle)
I never really liked
the taste of coffee.
Oh, it's just about the beans.
I'll take you to my spot.
You look exhausted.
No, I'm-I'm fine.
Tell me what's up?
This place is no joke, Dej.
I mean, I knew it wouldn't be,
it's Harvard, but...
it's on a whole 'nother level.
You know, if there's not
a test one day,
there's a paper due
the next Monday.
And I got Janelle half the time.
Jennifer doesn't make it easy.
And if I'm not studying,
I'm working.
'Cause scholarships, they cover
tuition, but not books
and food and clothes and...
How much time do you need
to finish your paper?
No. No way. No, you're
only here for a day.
Look, Malik, how much time?
Like, an hour.
Take two.
-Are you serious?
-I'm serious.
-You sure?
-Very sure.
Oh, thank you,
thank you, thank...
Mwah, mwah, mwah.
I'm gonna make it up
to you tonight.
After my paper, we goin' out.
(door shuts)
NICKY:
Okay...
Hello, Sally. Hi, Sally.
-(doorbell rings)
-It's been... 50...
-It's been 50 years.
-REBECCA: I hear someone.
Someone's home.
-MIGUEL: Really?
-REBECCA: Uh-huh.
I don't think so.
-(Rebecca gasps)
-Oh, okay.
MIGUEL:
Here we go.
It's her. It's her.
It's her.
Hello?
Say "Hi, Sally."
I finally made it
to California,
and boy are my arms tired.
I'm sorry, do I know you?
Okay...
No, no, no, no, no, no.
Hi, Sally.
This is, uh, Nicky Pearson.
In 1969, his path
crossed with yours
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
on your way to Woodstock.
And he's been pining
for you ever since.
Oh, and he, um,
he got you this gift here.
It's an old camera,
'cause I remember
you used to take pictures.
Oh, my God.
(chuckles)
Hello, Nicky.
Hello, Sally.
♪ ♪
-Nice.
-Mm-hmm.
You've got an eye.
Oh, no, that was taken
by a friend of mine
in Cambria.
A pro.
No, I, uh, got a job at
a pharmaceutical company
in the late '70s.
Help yourself.
And, uh, well, photography
became more of a hobby.
How was Woodstock?
(chuckles)
Wet.
It rained a lot.
My friends told me
I'm in Scorsese's
Woodstock documentary.
They say I'm dancing topless.
But I can't bring myself
to watch it.
Oh, I could certainly
bring myself to watch that.
Yeah.
(laughs)
Oh...
Oh, what do we have here?
Oh, hi, hi. Um...
Well, these are old friends
of mine
from when I lived
in Pittsburgh.
This is my husband Eric.
Nicky and Miguel and...
Rebecca. Hi.
-ERIC: Hey. Nice to meet you.
-REBECCA: Very nice to meet you.
MIGUEL:
You have a very lovely...
Yeah, well, uh,
we should be going.
So, thanks for letting us
use the can there.
Well, stay for dinner.
REBECCA:
No, no, no, no.
We wouldn't want to impose.
Oh, come on.
We have plenty of food.
Yeah, yeah, please.
Uh, yeah, please stay.
Uh... insist.
-Sure.
-Sure. Thank you.
-We'll... We'll stay.
-SALLY: That's lovely.
(chuckles)
Hey, Dej.
Wow, you, uh... Um...
You, uh...
Y-You look...
incandescent.
(laughs)
Okay, Harvard.
(both laugh)
Sure this isn't too much?
Babe, you sat on a bus
that I know smelled rank
-for five hours.
-Mm-hmm.
And you had to deal with
my messy Jennifer situation,
and you still gave me
the two hours
I desperately needed to finish
my Russian Lit paper.
You're not too much.
This dress is not too much.
I love it.
I love you.
I don't know whether to keep you
here or show you off.
-Show me off.
-(both giggle)
I seem to remember you
having a brother, Nicky.
Yeah, Jack. He's dead.
He was my husband.
And he was Miguel's best friend,
but he didn't,
he didn't snake his widow.
I see. I think.
Nicky, help me.
It's so long ago.
Where did we meet?
At the vet's.
Ah, okay.
We worked together one summer
at the veterinarian clinic
in Pittsburgh.
Yes. In June of 1969.
And you were wearing a long,
red floral dress.
And I sort of asked you out
on a date,
which we spent in the back
of your Volkswagen van
you named Pearl.
And you, uh...
You deflowered me under a moon
that men had just walked upon.
Oh, my God.
Yes.
Yes, it's all coming back
to me now.
The moon. Your parents.
-Salisbury steak. (laughs)
-(laughs)
Oh, gosh.
For a minute there
I thought I had
early onset Alzheimer's.
Or not just early.
Plain old Alzheimer's.
-(laughs)
-ERIC: Deflowered, huh?
Seems my wife defoliated
much of the northeast.
You reaped the rewards.
ERIC:
Oh, she could teach
a master class.
SALLY:
Ah. Cheers.
MIGUEL:
This meal is excellent.
You know, Rebecca has
a cold asparagus soup recipe.
JACK:
Perfect end to a perfect day.
(chuckles)
I'm gonna get one
of these sometime. Someday.
I mean, after we buy
a sensible family car,
of course.
You know, maybe like
a midlife crisis purchase.
-Just warning you.
-(laughs)
I always thought the wind in my
hair would be overrated,
but it is properly rated.
A car like this can make
a person feel immortal.
I don't need a car
to feel that.
I got you.
I'm not even a cold soup guy,
but hers is just some...
I do have Alzheimer's.
Yeah, I have, um, plaques
forming on my brain,
and no amount of medications
or word exercises
will cure me.
First goes
the short-term memory,
and then the longer ones,
one by one.
Or is it a thousand each day?
I don't even know.
Sometimes I think about what
my very last memory will be
before the candle goes out.
I am so embarrassed.
Rebecca, I'm sorry.
I-I had no idea.
No, no, no, you wouldn't know.
You would think
that this diagnosis
would help me sweat
the small stuff less,
but not really.
I just, this morning,
rolling out the garbage cans
before we left was something
that kept nagging at me.
Even during this dinner,
this strange dinner,
I thought about them.
You'd think that we would
stop sweating the small stuff
as we got older,
when bigger things
started happening to us,
but nope.
Not the case.
It's so strange, isn't it?
ERIC:
The deck.
I-I worry about the deck
we-we built out back.
Um...
it was built without permits,
and I'm afraid it's gonna
collapse,
or the city's gonna find out
and, you know, come after me.
It's stupid, I know,
but I wonder
how many, uh, months I've spent
thinking about that day.
I still look at my hairbrush
in the morning,
looking for fallout.
It's kind of my signature thing,
my hair.
You have great hair.
-MIGUEL: You, too, Nicky.
-Thank you.
-(Sally chuckles)
I've only lost, like,
seven strands in 30 years.
But still, I worry that
I'm gonna lose all my hair.
The years that I have lost
worrying about something
that never happened.
Hmm. Mm-hmm.
NICKY (sighs):
Oh, God,
I wonder how many years
I spent thinking about Sally.
I mean...
oh, like, decades maybe?
I don't know.
But, uh, you know, uh,
I d-- I don't regret that.
That, um...
those lost years.
I think... I think
it got me through.
It gave me, uh, reason to hope
that, you know, one day
something good might happen
to me.
Maybe it was all leading up
to this, the...
most awkward meal of all time.
But not a waste of time.
No way.
Not for me.
That's lovely, Nicky.
ERIC:
You know, the only true love
is unrequited love.
So maybe it's better to love
an idealized version
of your partner.
(laughs)
I don't know.
I hope everyone saved room
for dessert.
I regret buying
our satellite dish.
When we got it,
our den became Eric's retreat.
Now we watch TV separately,
we eat our meals separately.
I cook chickens
for the week because
I don't know when he is
going to want his dinner.
Sal, that wasn't keeping
in the spirit of the topic.
We were talking about
not sweating the small stuff,
not airing your bigger issues
with me in front of strangers.
They're not strangers, Eric.
Nicky is an old friend...
...who has pined after me
for 50 years
while you have treated me
like a line cook.
I've known him longer
than I have known you.
The only reason I don't
bring up the small things
is because the big things
leave me no room
to worry about anything else.
Bourbon, gentlemen?
Yes, please.
I'm an alcoholic.
Yeah, he is.
We were inseparable
when we were young.
First two years we were married,
sex every day.
Twice on Saturday.
-My.
-(laughs)
He couldn't get enough of me.
-I was something else back then.
-I can see that.
I bet you turned heads, too.
Well...
I had my days.
(chuckles)
My first husband got
the showroom model of me.
Miguel... got the...
used classic
with a ton of miles.
Well, he seems to worship you.
I struck gold twice.
I stopped taking pictures
of myself.
That was my thing:
completely open self-portraits.
-Hmm.
-Then it stopped.
When is it that it changes,
Rebecca?
When is it that we stop wanting
to see reflections of ourselves?
Mm.
(clears throat)
Miguel is from Puerto Rico,
and...
(grunts) for, uh, our wedding
we took salsa lessons
so we could salsa dance
at our reception.
And then, even after
we were married, you know,
we, um, we'd find a club
or some rec center
that had salsa nights;
I loved it.
And then this one time
we were dancing--
and we were older,
you know, in our 60s--
and there was this young girl
in a pink dress--
I'll never forget her face--
pointing at me
like I was some novelty act.
Like it was so brave of me
to be dancing at my age.
(Sally scoffs)
-I never salsa danced
ever again, that was it.
-Aw.
-Mm.
-(chuckles)
I blamed it on my sciatica.
Now I cover my liver spots
on my hands with makeup,
and I will not leave the house
without a scarf to hide my neck.
(sighs heavily)
-My friend Bernadette,
she's our age.
-Mm-hmm.
She quit coloring her hair
and went totally gray.
She said it was so liberating,
like throwing away the crutches
and being able to walk again.
(laughing):
Sure.
Bernadette is full of crap.
(both laugh)
Just saying.
♪ You see what it is ♪
♪ Step in the room,
watch how they mood change ♪
♪ ♪
(Malik chuckles)
Malik, I'm ready.
Ready for what?
I want to go back
to your place.
Why? We just got here.
-Oh.
-Mm-hmm.
Oh.
Oh, word?
(laughing):
Bet, we out. We out.
(door opens)
-Hey.
My heart.
My heart is beating
so fast right now.
You nervous?
You're not?
(stifled chuckle)
(insects chirping outside)
No! Pearl was stuck in the mud,
and I had all of
Creedence Clearwater...
Miguel says it's time to go.
Oh, well, what about dessert?
Sheet cake from Costco.
It's time.
-Okay.
-Okay. Yep.
Well, this was so much fun.
It was.
Oh...
Oh, here, take one.
Take a bunch.
-Oh, I love that one.
-Aw.
I have a Haitian painting
I wanted to show you.
♪ ♪
This was so fun, though.
Thank you for having us.
-Yes. Oh, yes.
-Lovely to meet you.
Um, we'll, we'll give
you two some privacy.
MIGUEL:
Pleasure meeting you.
-Yeah, drive safely.
-Thank you.
Thank you for coming, Nicky.
I can't tell you
how much it meant to me.
Well, I don't know
how true that is, but...
-No, it is.
-It doesn't matter.
I made your wall.
That's me. That's me
sitting in your van,
looking at the moon.
I remember my jacket,
I-I remember
when you took the picture.
(sighs)
♪ I will still be dreaming ♪
Aw.
♪ I have no thought of time ♪
It's a full moon.
Yeah.
♪ For who knows ♪
♪ Where the time goes? ♪
♪ Who knows... ♪
See you in 50 years?
I'll save the date.
♪ Goes ♪
♪ ♪
I want to feel this way
forever.
♪ I have no fear of time ♪
Just like this, with you.
♪ For who knows ♪
♪ How my love grows? ♪
You did not get
the best version of me.
What?
You have such an ordeal
ahead of you, Miguel.
(sighs)
I'm so sorry.
(sighs sharply)
"In sickness and in health."
I said that, didn't I?
I think so.
But in fairness, most of your
vows were in Spanish,
so I don't know.
I'm pretty sure that I said it.
(chuckles)
Here.
I bought that for you
at the, uh, antique store.
(gasps)
What a beautiful brooch.
Yeah, a lot of people don't know
that the yellow-naped
Amazon parrot is
a migratory bird
that uses the Crux as a GPS
to fly from Central America
to the Arctic to mate.
No matter how dark the night,
the Southern Cross
guides the lovebirds
on their journey
to one of the most
desolate places on Earth.
-That is a sweet story.
-Mm.
You definitely made it up.
-Yes, I did.
-(Rebecca laughs)
We have a journey ahead of us.
But I am gonna be
up to the task.
And I'm going to be
amazing for you.
Every step of the way,
I promise.
We'll get through this
together.
I want to start
salsa dancing again.
Absolutely.
(footsteps approaching)
(rapping on car window)
-Oh.
-Locked.
-Dead end.
-Sorry.
(laughs)
Don't mind me.
You're welcome to finish
what you started.
(laughing):
No, no, we're okay.
-(Miguel chuckles)
-REBECCA: Whew.
You know, uh...
I think it's about time
for me to go back East.
-What?
-I mean, they're breaking ground
on the new cabin,
and your meathead son
is probably gonna need
an adult there, so...
Are you sure, Nicky?
Yeah. I'm sure.
("Right on Time"
by Brandi Carlile playing)
♪ Come back now ♪
♪ Even if you call me out ♪
-♪ You might be... ♪
-Hey, Nicky.
I know that things didn't
really work out the way
that you wanted,
but I really believe
the universe will put
the right person in your path.
-"Universe," now, huh?
-Mm-hmm.
Yeah, first it was my brother,
now it's the universe?
Oh, boy.
-Ha. See you later, Nicky.
-Goodbye.
♪ I always do ♪
♪ You're the strongest person
in the room... ♪
I refuse to believe
that the universe or...
my brother had anything
to do with this,
but I think he would have
really liked that, um,
that you two found each other.
Okay, I'm gonna leave
before I throw up.
♪ It's not too late ♪
♪ Either way ♪
♪ I lose you
in these silent days ♪
♪ It wasn't right ♪
♪ But it was right ♪
♪ On time ♪
♪ Come back now ♪
♪ Even if you call me out... ♪
Feeling a little rusty.
-Uh... you sure about this?
-Mm-hmm.
-♪ Of course you are ♪
-(fading): Okay. Ready?
♪ ♪
♪ I'm scared, too ♪
♪ Didn't mean to take it
out on you ♪
♪ I know I always do ♪
♪ You're the strongest person
in the room ♪
(Rebecca laughs)
♪ Turn back time ♪
♪ Help me to rewind,
and we can ♪
♪ Find ourselves again... ♪
FLIGHT ATTENDANT:
Excuse me, sir?
I'm gonna need you
to put the seat up.
Question, Edie.
(sighs)
Is...
Is the purpose
of putting the seat up,
is-is that to save me
in the case of
an emergency water landing?
'Cause I don't think
this is gonna do it.
(horn honks lightly)
RANDALL:
Hey.
Look who's here.
How was the drive up?
(exhales)
Not bad.
♪ I can feel it... ♪
Always goes by faster
than you'd think.
♪ It's beyond your control ♪
♪ You know it is... ♪
How's your mom doing?
They say it won't be long now.
Everyone's just trying
to get here in time.
♪ I never held my breath
for quite this long ♪
♪ And I don't take it back,
I did what I had to do ♪
Thanks for coming, Edie.
♪ It's not too late... ♪
EDIE:
Deja. Oh, my God.
-Can you get any more beautiful?
-(chuckles)
Oh, look at you.
Are you going to be
a problem, sir?
Absolutely.
Well, I'm glad that
I brought my duct tape.
Seat up.
-Now?
-Please.
Sure.
All you had to do was ask.
♪ Either way ♪
♪ I lose you
in these silent days ♪
Oh, I missed you.
♪ It wasn't right... ♪
I missed you more.
♪ But it was right ♪
♪ On time. ♪
Captioning sponsored by
20th CENTURY FOX TELEVISION
and TOYOTA.
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org